Welcome to “Machine Learning Models –
Learning from models to make predictions.” After watching this video, you will be able to define a machine learning model, describe the different learning model types, and describe how to use a learning
model to solve a problem. Now data contains a wealth of information that can
be used to solve certain types of problems. Traditional data analysis approaches can
be a person manually inspecting the data or a specialized computer program
that automates the human analysis. These approaches reach their limits due to the amount of data to be analyzed
or the complexity of the problem. Machine learning (ML) uses algorithms – also known
as “models” - to identify patterns in the data. The process by which the model learns these
patterns from data is called “model training”. Once a model is trained, it can
then be used to make predictions. When the model is presented with new data, it tries to make predictions or decisions based
on the patterns it has learned from past data. Machine Learning models can be
divided into three basic classes: Supervised Learning, Unsupervised
Learning, and Reinforcement Learning. The most commonly used type of machine
learning is Supervised Learning. In Supervised Learning, a human
provides input data and correct outputs. The model tries to identify relationships and dependencies between the input
data and the correct output. This type of learning comprises two types
of models, regression and classification. Regression models are used to
predict a numeric (or “real”) value. For example, if information is
given about past home sales, such as geographic location, size,
number of bedrooms, and sales price, you can train a model to predict the estimated sales price for other homes
with similar characteristics. Classification models are used to
predict whether some information or data belongs to a category (or “class”). For example, for a set of emails
along with a designation you can classify whether they are to
be considered as spam or not. And so, you can train an algorithm to
identify unsolicited emails. In Unsupervised Learning, the
data is not labeled by a human. The models must analyze the data and try to identify patterns and structure within
the data based on its characteristics. Clustering is an example of this learning style. Clustering models are used to divide each
record of a dataset into one of a similar group. An example of a clustering model could
be providing purchase recommendations for an e-commerce store, based on past shopping
behavior and the content of a shopping basket. Another example is anomaly detection
that identifies outliers in a dataset, such as fraudulent credit card transactions
or suspicious online log-in attempts. And the third type of learning,
Reinforcement Learning, is loosely based on the way human
beings and other organisms learn. So, think about a mouse in a maze. If the mouse gets to the end of the
maze, it gets a piece of cheese. This is the “reward” for completing a task. The mouse learns through trial and error how to get through the maze to get
as much cheese as it can. In a similar way, a reinforcement learning
model learns the best set of actions to take, given its current environment, to
get the most rewards over time. This type of learning has recently
been very successful in beating the best human players in games such as Go,
chess and popular strategy video games. Deep learning is a specialized
type of machine learning. It refers to a general set of models and
techniques that loosely emulate the way the human brain solves a wide range of problems. It is commonly used to analyze natural
language (both spoken and text), images, audio, video, to forecast
time series data and much more. Deep learning has recently been
very successful in these and other areas and hence is becoming an increasingly
popular and important tool for data science. It requires large datasets of labeled data
to train a model, is compute intensive, and usually requires special purpose hardware
to achieve acceptable training times. Now you can build a custom Deep Learning model from scratch or use pre-trained models
from public model repositories. Deep Learning models are implemented using popular
frameworks such as TensorFlow, PyTorch and Keras. The learning frameworks provide a
Python API and many support other programming languages, such as C++ and JavaScript. You can download pre-trained state-of-the-art models from repositories that are
commonly referred to as model zoos. Popular model zoos include those provided
by TensorFlow, PyTorch, Keras, and ONNX. Models are also published by academic
and commercial research groups. Let’s briefly outline the high-level tasks
involved in building a model using an example. Assume you want to enable an application to identify objects in images by
training a deep learning model. First, you collect and prepare data
that will be used to train a model. Data preparation can be a time-consuming
and labor-intensive process. In order to train a model to detect objects in
images, you need to label the raw training data. For example, you can draw bounding
boxes around objects and label them. Next, you build a model from scratch or
select an existing model that might be well suited for the task from
a public or private resource. You can then train the
model on your prepared data. During training, your model
learns from the labeled data how to identify objects that
are depicted in an image. Once training has commenced, you
analyze the training results and repeat the process until the trained model
performance meets your requirements. When the trained model performs as desired, you deploy it to make it
available to your applications. In this video you learned that: Machine learning (ML) uses algorithms – also known
as “models” ‒ to identify patterns in the data. The process by which the model learns
data patterns is called “model training”. Types of ML are Supervised,
Unsupervised, and Reinforcement. Supervised learning comprises two types
of models, regression and classification. And deep learning refers to a general set
of models and techniques that loosely emulate the way the human brain
solves a wide range of problems.